---
layout: post
title: "SAFe Exam"
date: 2021-10-03 10:55:00 +0800
author: Michael
categories: Develop
---

# Lean-Agile Mindset
1. Lean Thinking
1. Embracing Agility

# Differentiate Agile from waterfall
1. Incremental delivery of value
1. Fast feedback

# Duration of an Iteration in SAFe
Two weeks

# Three pillars of scrum
1. Transparency
1. inspection
1. adaptation

# Frequency for PI Planning in SAFe
Every 8 to 12 weeks

# Scrum Master attend (not facilitate)
Scrum of scrums

# In SAFe, Activity of Scrum Master's responsibility?
Coordinating with other teams

# What is one responsibility of a SAFe Scrum Master?
Facilitating an effective team breakout session during PI Planning

# Three attributes of Scrum Master
Communicate, coordinate, cooperate

# Effective Scrum Master helps the team do what?	
Embrace relentless improvement through Iteration retrospectives

# Effective Scrum Master help the team improve on their journey towards technical excellence?	
By focusing on the importance of Built-in Quality

# Plan-Do-Check-Adjust cycle occur in scrum?
Across all scrum events

# one example of a servant leader behavior pattern?	
Understands and empathizes with others

# Good coaches do not give people the answer, but instead they do what?	
They guide people to the solution

# three examples of old coach behaviors? 
1. Focusing on deadlines
1. Driving toward specific outcomes
1. Fixing problems for the team

# statement about teams
Teams are more productive than the same number of individuals

# Team's ultimate competitive advantage?	
Teamwork

# Key constructs to delivering continuous value
1. Cadence 
1. Synchronization

# Features lend themselves to the Lean UX process model, including:
1. description, 
1. benefit hypothesis
1. Acceptance criteria

# Program board highlights Feature for teams on the Agile Release Train
1. Delivery dates
1. Milestones
1. Dependencies

# Each PI Planning meeting evolves over time, and ending PI Planning with a retrospective will help to do what?
Continuously improve the event

# Who commits to the Iteration goals at the end of Iteration planning?	
The team

# What is the name of the event where all team members determine how much of the team's backlog they can commit to delivering during an upcoming Iteration?	
Iteration planning

# Why do teams have an Iteration retrospective?	
To adjust and identify ways to improve

# Who is responsible for prioritizing the Iteration backlog?	
The Product Owner

# What is this statement describing? "Agile Teams continuously adapt to new circumstances and enhance the methods of value delivery."	
Continuous Improvement

# Three attributes summarize DevOps? 
1. A culture;
1. A mindset;
1. A set of technical practices;

# What are two anti-patterns for the IP Iteration? 
1. To plan work for the IP Iteration during PI Planning
1. To wait for the IP Iteration to fix defects;

# When is one time a Scrum Master may be a participant rather than a facilitator?	
When using ad hoc teams for Inspect and Adapt

# How are the 5 Whys used?	
To identify a root cause(s) of a problem

# During PI Planning, who owns the planning of Stories into Iterations?	
Agile Teams

# Effective Scrum Masters apply which coaching behavior?
They encourage the team to learn from their mistakes

# Which statement is true about scrum?	
It is a team-based framework

# Basis for most team conflicts?	
Assumptions that have not been discussed

# During PI Planning, which two tasks are part of the Scrum Master's role in the first team breakout? 
1. Manage the timebox;
1. Facilitate the coordination with other teams for dependencies;

# Who can change the backlog during an Iteration?	
Agile Team

# In SAFe, who owns the decision for releasing changes into production?	
Product Management

# What is the purpose of the Plan-Do-Check-Adjust cycle as applied to Iterations?	
To provide a regular, predictable development cadence to produce an increment of value

# Which demo is performed in the IP Iteration?	
The PI System Demo

# Participating in PI Planning enables teams to gain
1. alignment
1. commitment around a clear set of PI objectives

# The business must depend on the team for what in order to do any meaningful planning?	
Commitment to the plan

# Which type of Enabler does a System Architect review during a System Demo?	
Enabler Features

# Reason why some teams never reach Stage 4 (Performing) in the stages of high performing teams?	
Because no one guides them

# What are two good Scrum Master facilitation practices? (Choose two.)
1. Create an environment of safety so that everyone feels comfortable contributing to the discussion
1. Ensure all voices are heard

# What are two common PI Planning anti-patterns? (Choose two.)
1. Too much time is spent analyzing each Story
1. Scrum Masters who work with multiple teams do not have time for their teams





